\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@c
@c  Resume of David M. Syzdek
@c  Copyright (C) 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 David M. Syzdek
@c
@setfilename syzdek-resume.info
@settitle David M. Syzdek
@c For double-sided printing, uncomment:
@c @setchapternewpage odd
@c %**end of header

@include version-syzdek-resume.texi

@set TITLE David M. Syzdek
@set NAME David M. Syzdek
@set EMAIL david@@syzdek.net
@set URL http://www.syzdek.net/@/~syzdek/
@set URL http://www.bindlebinaries.com/
@set PHONE1 907-980-1151 (day)
@set PHONE2  907-279-2001 (fax)
@set ADDRESS1 P.O. Box 200583
@set ADDRESS2 Anchorage, Alaska  99520
@set ADDRESS3 United States of America

@c Put everything in one index (arbitrarily chosen to be the concept index).
@c @syncodeindex vr cp
@c @syncodeindex fn cp
@c @syncodeindex tp cp
@c @synindex pg cp

@c @titlepage
@c @title @value{NAME}
@c @subtitle updated @value{UPDATED}
@c @author 
@c 
@c @end titlepage

@setchapternewpage off
@headings off
@everyfooting @thistitle @| @| @value{UPDATED-MONTH}

@ifnottex                                                  
@node Top                                                                            
@top Resume                                                              
@menu                                                             
* People::
@end menu                                                                                                              
@end ifnottex 

@ifnottex                                                  
@node People                                                                       
@unnumbered People                                                             
@menu                                                             
* David M. Syzdek::
@end menu                                                                                                              
@end ifnottex 

@node David M. Syzdek
@unnumberedsec David M. Syzdek
@multitable @columnfractions .60 .40 
@item @value{ADDRESS1}
@tab @value{PHONE1}
@item @value{ADDRESS2}
@tab @value{PHONE2}
@item
@tab
@item @uref{@value{URL}}
@tab @value{EMAIL}
@end multitable
@ifnottex                                                                  
@menu
* Summary of Qualifications::
* Technical Expertise::
* Professional Experience::
* Portfolio::
* Online Profiles::
@end menu                                                                                                              
@end ifnottex

@node Summary of Qualifications
@unnumberedsubsec Summary of Qualifications

@itemize @bullet
@item Expertise in writing programs and libraries through the use of development tools, such as Xcode, GCC, autoconf, libtool, and automake.
@item Solid understanding of Unix environments, such as Slackware Linux, FreeBSD, Solaris, and OS X.
@item Experience in developing Unix daemons, porting POSIX libraries to iOS, and writing intricate iOS apps.
@item Strong knowledge of LDAP design, including the deployment of Sun One Directory Server and OpenLDAP servers, the integration with applications, schema management, and application development.
@end itemize


@c The objective of this resume is to obtain a position as a unix software developer and Linux systems administrator that utilizes my five years of Linux, Solaris, and FreeBSD administration experience, software development experience, and infrastructure design experience.

@c I have experience with successfully migrating legacy, stand alone, and acquired Unix based systems into unified or updated core systems.  This experience includes e-mail migrations and upgrades, web server migrations, radius migrations, and DNS migrations.  I also have experience designing, developing, and implementing various user interfaces for interacting with support databases or provisioning systems.  These interfaces have used combinations of XML, HTML, JavaScript, Perl, Bash, M4 and C. Working with remote Unix like operating systems such as Linux, FreeBSD, and Solaris, I have had to develop management scripts and daemons to simplify or completely automate tasks. I have experience using open source development tools such as GNU automake, GNU autoconf, GNU libtool, GNU Compiler Collection, Concurrent Versioning System, and Revision Control System. I also have limited experience with commercial development tools such as Microsoft Visual Studio and Apple Xcode.  For most of my professional career I have had to be resourceful, self motivated, flexible, and self educated.

@node Technical Expertise
@unnumberedsubsec Technical Expertise
@table @b
@item Languages
C,
Objective-C,
C++,
Perl,
PHP,
Bash,
JavaScript,
SSI,
M4,
and XML
@item APIs
OpenLDAP Library,
MinGW,
AppKit/Cocoa (OS X),
UIKit/Cocoa (iPhone/iOS),
GNU Libc,
GNU Readline,
Libtool's libltdl,
Pthreads,
Berkeley DB,
SQLite,
iODBC/unixODBC,
and Syslog
@item Concepts
MVC Design,
Unix Daemons,
Networks,
Socket Programming (TCP and UDP),
Portable Programming,
CGI Programming,
Cross-Compiling,
Library Development,
Perl Modules,
Source Code Control/Revision Control,
Change Management,
Software Documentation,
and Open Source Licensing
@item Protocols
DNS,
FTP,
HTTP,
HTTPS,
IMAP,
LDAP,
NFS,
NTP,
SMTP,
SNMP,
OSPP,
POP3,
and SSH
@item Standards
Single Unix Specification (SUSv3),
GNU Coding Standards,
and Apple's Human Interface Guidelines
@item Development Tools
Xcode,
LLVM,
GCC,
GNU Make,
GNU Libtool,
GNULib,
GNU Libc,
Autoconf,
Automake,
CVS,
Git,
and Texinfo
@item Environments
Slackware Linux,
FreeBSD,
Solaris,
Apple OS X,
Windows (98, 2000, XP, Vista, 7),
VirtualBox,
FreeBSD Jails,
and Linux LXC
@item Software
ntpd,
ProFTPd
Apache,
Lighttpd,
Redmine,
MediaWiki,
Nagios,
Sendmail,
Mailman,
Bind,
SunOne Directory Server,
OpenLDAP,
OpenSSH,
and MySQL
@end table


@node Professional Experience
@unnumberedsubsec Professional Experience

@table @b

@item Bindle Binaries @* Anchorage, Alaska
@b{Owner-Operator/Software Developer} (2010 - present)
@*
Primary responsibilities include writing software for the iPhone
platform and Unix based platforms.  Secondary responsibilities include
coordinating work with clients to ensure project satisfaction.
@itemize @minus
@item Designed and implemented an Objective-C framework for accessing LDAP directories from Mac OS X or iOS.
@item Built and maintained a server environment to support business operations. The server environment utilizes a combination of Linux containers (LXC) hosted  on local hardware and remote instances hosted with VPS providers.
@item Designed and wrote Branches, an LDAP administrator for iOS.  Branches parses a servers schema and uses the parsed schema to present intelligent options to users when modifying LDAP entries.
@item Created a portable ODBC client using iODBC and unixODBC for POSIX environments such as OS X, Slackware Linux, and FreeBSD.
@item Created iOSPorts project to port OpenSSL, Cyrus-SASL, OpenLDAP, and PCRE to iOS environment for the iPhone.
@item Wrote a two-part article describing a method to port OpenLDAP to iOS.
@item Developed an RPN calculator for the iPhone OS. The application makes use of the CoreGraphics framework to dynamically generate button images used in the calculator's GUI.
@item Wrote a promotion iPhone application for Blogography.  The application makes use of the CoreAnimation framework to provide animated backgrounds and menu transitions.
@item Wrote an iPhone application which simulated a Magic 8 Ball. The application makes use of the accelerometer to determine if the device is shook or if the device is flipped upside down.
@end itemize

@item Alaska Communications Systems @* Anchorage, Alaska
@b{Acting IP Engineer II} (2003 - 2010)
@*
Primary responsibilities include maintaining SunOne Directory Servers, 
Apache servers, ProFTP servers, and legacy servers from acquired ISP.  Secondary responsibilities
include writing internal applications for the ISP business unit and other departments as
required.
@itemize @minus
@item Developed a modular system to act as a device manager for mobile devices for the ACS cellular network. The system uses information from the device and billing system to properly configure the device for its capabilities and service when an OTA request is initiated.
@item Developed a client library for the Clam AntiVirus Daemon and used the library to create a ProFTPd module for scanning files uploaded by subscribers.
@item Installed and maintained a Redmine ticketing system for tracking department projects and department escalations.
@item Developed a web portal that allows staff to provision virtual domains and allows subscribers to self-manage users within their respective domains.
@item Developed a session management system which authenticates and tracks subscribers.  The system allows multiple web interfaces to share a single session identifier for a subscriber, thus eliminating the need for the subscriber to present credentials to each interface.
@item Developed a provisioning system which allows multiple billing systems to provision services on shared LDAP entries.  This system allows an individual subscriber to have one shared set of credentials for services managed managed by different billing systems.
@item Wrote a library and client which implemented the Over-the-air Service Provisioning Protocol, a proprietary protocol developed by Logica intended to allow clients on TCP/IP networks to communicate with mobile phones.  The client is used by an IVR to activate new mobile phones and update Preferred Roaming Lists (PRL) of existing mobile phones.
@item Wrote miscellaneous web interfaces for managing MMS, WAP, and EVDO service provisioning.
@item Wrote a library and utility that creates NAM data blocks for either IS-683-A or IS-683-C compatible mobile phones.
@item Implemented and maintained a CVS server to manage software packages developed by IP Engineering.
@item Migrated CVS repositories to Git repositories and used git-cvsserver to provide legacy CVS support.
@end itemize
@b{Systems Administrator I} (August 2001 - 2003)
@*
Primary responsibilities included maintaining DNS servers, iPlanet Messaging Servers, iPlanet
Directory Servers, Apache servers, ProFTP servers, and legacy servers from acquired ISP. 
Secondary responsibilities included writing simple utilities to assist support staff.
@itemize @minus
@item Using Bind 9, designed a DNS infrastructure which implemented split views and split horizons.
@item Developed Unix tools using Perl, Bash, and C to simplify server management and to assist technical support personnel.
@item Developed multiple Perl CGI interfaces which provided staff with controlled access to LDAP data and radius data.
@item Developed an iPlanet Messenger Express plug-in using CGI scripting and JavaScript. The plug-in added the ability for subscribers to manage e-mail filters. This involved writing a basic Sieve rule parser in JavaScript.
@item Completed a user audit of an acquired company's provisioning system against the company's billing database. Services were provisioned using Unix passwd and shadow files and the billing information was stored in MS SQL databases.
@item Planned and executed an upgrade of an iPlanet Messaging Server that served roughly 65,000 users. The upgrade including moving from a Sun 4400 to a Sun V880, moving the message store from NFS shares to local arrays, and upgrading the software from version 5.1 to version 5.2.  Detailed plans, time lines accurate to the minute, and proof of repetitive testing was provided to management prior to the actual upgrade.
@item Planned and executed the migration of an acquired ISP (MosquitoNet) consisting of roughly 6,000 users into ACS's ISP infrastructure.  This included coordinated e-mail, web, FTP, DNS, and radius migrations.
@item Implemented a FTP infrastructure that uses LDAP for authentication and supports virtual domains.  Created custom LDAP schema to support infrastructure.
@item Developed a system that uses data from LDAP and local templates to dynamically provision and re-provision virtual domains.
@item Was primary administrator for DNS servers, iPlanet Messaging Servers, LDAP servers, and Unix web servers of the ISP business unit.
@end itemize

@c @item HB Technical Services @* Fairbanks, Alaska
@c @b{Systems Administrator} (April 2001)
@c @c @b{Systems Administrator} (2001)
@c @itemize @minus
@c @item Used OpenLDAP on Linux and OpenBSD to provide global address book and roaming Netscape profile solutions for small businesses.
@c @item Used Linux and Samba as replacements for Microsoft Windows servers in small business environments. The replacements were used for primary domain controllers, file servers, roaming profiles, and print servers.
@c @item Provided OpenBSD firewalls for small businesses.
@c @item Produced and maintained Linux servers which provided Internet services such as web, e-mail, DNS, FTP, DHCP, and Webmail for small businesses.
@c @item Provided on site consulting and support for small networks, workstations, and Linux and OpenBSD servers.  
@c @end itemize

@item Internet Plus LLC dba MosquitoNet@*Fairbanks, Alaska
@b{Systems Administrator} (May 2001 - August 2001)
@c @c @b{Systems Administrator} (2001)
@itemize @minus
@item Set up and maintained MySQL databases for virtual hosting subscribers.
@item Assisted with the initial migration of administrative tasks from MosquitoNet to ACS.
@item Initiated the audit of MosquitoNet's provisioning systems.
@item Implemented new web mail system.
@item Managed daily operational tasks, resolved escalations from technical support, and provided a 24-hour response to system outages.
@end itemize
@b{Computer Technician} (March 2000 - April 2001)
@c @b{Computer Technician} (2000 - 2001)
@itemize @minus
@c @item Installed and configured 802.11b networking equipment at subscriber premises.
@item Provided technical support to wireless and business subscribers.  Provided on site response in the event of extended subscriber outages.
@c @item Acted as a sales person to expand MosquitoNet's user base.
@c @item Provided on site computer repair.
@item Installed simple office networks for small businesses.
@end itemize
@c @b{Subscriber Support Technician} (January 2000 - March 2000)
@c @c @b{Subscriber Support Technician} (2000)
@c @itemize @minus
@c @item Provided technical support to email, dial-up, and virtual hosting subscribers.
@c @item Assisted in the computer repair shop as needed.
@c @end itemize

@c @item Sears Roebuck and Company@* Fairbanks, Alaska
@c @b{Sales Associate} (October 1998 - April 2000)
@c @itemize @minus 
@c @item Educated customers about basic home computing and Internet use. 
@c @item Provided telephone support for customers having difficulties with their new computers.
@c @item Demonstrated and sold computers, sewing machines, and vacuums available at our location.
@c @item Maintained sales floor and performed duties as assigned.
@c @end itemize 

@end table

@page

@node Portfolio
@unnumberedsubsec Portfolio

@table @b

@item Branches LDAP Administrator @* @uref{http://itunes.apple.com/us/app/branches/id499800513}
Branches is an iOS LDAP administator. Branches includes a schema browser, directory browser,
directory search tool, and RFC texts related to LDAP.  In addition, Branches uses the server's
schema to determine which attribute types and object classes to allow to be deleted, modified,
or added when a user is modifying an LDAP entry.

@item iOS Ports @* @uref{https://github.com/bindle/iOSPorts}
iOS Ports is a collection of F/OSS libraries which have been ported to the iOS platform
for use when creating applications for the iPhone, iPad, or iPod Touch. iOS Ports
facilitates the downloading of the source code and compiling for the target iOS architecture. iOS
Ports accomplishes this using GNU Make to prepare the source code and Xcode to compile
the binaries.

@item LDAP Kit @* @uref{http://bindle.github.com/LdapKit/}
LDAP Kit is a framework which provides an Objective-C interface for the OpenLDAP client libraries
by wrapping LDAP tasks in NSOperation objects and providing Objective-C classes for LDAP data types.

@item ODBC Shell @* @uref{https://github.com/bindle/odbcshell}
ODBC Shell is a utility which provides a simple and polished command line interface
to querying databases using ODBC. ODBC Shell uses GNU Readline to present the CLI,
iODBC to manage ODBC connections, string manipulation to interpret the user's commands,
and GNU Autotools to compile and configure the sources.

@item Ask Dave @* @uref{https://github.com/bindle/AskDave} @* @uref{http://itunes.apple.com/us/app/ask-dave/id315173501}
AskDave is an entertainment application for the iPhone which uses CoreAnimation and the
accelerometer to provide random animated answers.

@end table

@node Online Profiles
@unnumberedsubsec Online Profiles

@itemize @bullet
@item iTunes @uref{http://itunes.apple.com/us/artist/bindle-binaries/id284942327}
@item Ohloh @uref{https://www.ohloh.net/accounts/syzdek}
@item LinkedIn @uref{http://www.linkedin.com/profile/view?id=70971430}
@item SourceForge @uref{http://sourceforge.net/users/syzdek}
@item Stack Overflow @uref{http://stackoverflow.com/users/903194/}
@item Github (Personal) @uref{https://github.com/syzdek}
@item Github (Business) @uref{https://github.com/bindle}
@end itemize

@bye
